--- Extracting from IRDA (Licensing of Bancassurance Entities) Regulations, 2012.pdf ---

--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
Exposure Draft 
IRDA (Licensing of Bancassurance Entities) Regulations, 2012  
--- Page 2 ---
IRDA (Licensing of Bancassurance Entities) Regulations, 2012 
 
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (2) of section 114A of the Insurance Act, 
1938 read with sections 14 and 26 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
Act, 1999 , the Authority, in consultation with the Insurance Advisory Committee, hereby 
makes the following regulations, namely 
 
Short title and commencement 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
(Licensing of Bancassurance Entities) Regulations, 2012 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.  
However, the banks and Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFC) licensed under IRDA 
(Licensing of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2002 shall be governed by these regulations 
on expiry of the license or on termination of the existing license.  
 
Definitions 
2. (1). In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, - 
(i) ―Act‖ means the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938) 
 
(ii) ―Authority‖ means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority established 
under the provisions of section 3 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority Act, 1999 
 
(iii) ―Applicant‖ means any institution including Non -Banking Finance Companies 
licensed under Banking Regulations Act, 1949 to accept deposit from public. 
 
(iv) ―Bancassurance‖ means any Insurance business conducted through the channel of 
the Institution specified at 2(iii) above.  
 
(v) ―Bancassurance Agent‖ means an applicant specified in clause (iii) and licensed to 
act as agent to an Insurer (s) under Regulation 4 of these regulations: 
 
(vi) ―Certification‖ means the process by which a Specified Person  or Chief 
Bancassurance Executive of the Bancassurance Agent, who has passed the required 
examination, is issued a Certificate entitling him to solicit and procure insurance 
business on behalf of the Bancassurance Agent 
 
--- Page 3 ---
(vii) ―Chief Bancassurance Executive‖ means an officer of the bancassurance agent so 
nominated by its Board of Director s, who possesses the requisites qualification who 
have passed such an examination as required under clauses (e) and (f) of Section 42 
of the Act. 
 
(viii) ―Deficiency in Service‖ means any fault, imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy in 
the quality, nature and manner of performance by the Bancassuranceagent which is 
required to be maintained under any law for the time being in enforce.  
 
 
(ix) ―Market Consistent Embedded Value‖  (MCEV) means the Market Consistent 
Embedded Value calculated as per the method specified by Institute of Actuaries of 
India.   
 
(x) ―Period of Amortization‖  means the period during which insurer is allowed to 
amortize the difference of the Market Consistent Embedded  Value and purchase 
value of the equity of the insurer.  
--- End of IRDA (Licensing of Bancassurance Entities) Regulations, 2012.pdf (Truncated) ---

--- Extracting from Consumer Affairs Booklet 2019-2020.pdf ---

--- Page 1 ---

--- Page 2 ---
1
CONTENTS 
 
         Topic                          Page No. 
 
Foreword 
  
1. Regulatory Framework and Circulars issued by  
 Consumer Affairs Department(CAD) during 2019-20     4 
 
2. Snapshot – Grievances         8 
 
3.         Summary of Grievances - Industry (Life & General)      19 
 
4.  Analysis of the Grievances Reported against Life Insurers     26 
 
5.  Analysis of the Grievances Reported against General Insurers    33 
  
6.  Analysis of the Grievances Reported to Insurance Ombudsmen    42 
 
7. CLAIMS            
 A brief on Claim Handling by Insurance Companies     49 
 
8.  MIS-SELLING & SPURIOUS CALLS         
 A brief on Mis-Selling and Spurious calls in the Life Insurance Sector   67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- Page 3 ---
2
FOREWORD 
 
Dr. Subhash Chandra Khuntia 
 Chairman  
The ongoing pandemic has tested the mettle of the Regulator as a protector of policyholders' interest 
as well as its developmental role in nudging the uninsured population towards taking insurance.  
One of the first steps taken by the Authority was to instruct Insurers to settle all Covid claims fast and 
repudiate liability only after being reviewed by the claims committee. The policyholders were assured 
that Covid 19 was covered in ail their indemnity based health insurance.  
The Covid 19 being a health crisis also restated an already known fact that large section of population 
did not have health insurance. The Authority Designed Aarogya Sanjeevani  a standard health 
insurance policy as well as Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak which offers protection again st Covid 
19. The standardized products have been well received and has given the much needed relief to the 
general public. The Authority also encouraged insurers to device Covid specific products and fast 
tracked the approvals.  
To ensure smooth operation of the insurers and intermediaries in providing seamless service to the 
policyholders IRDAI has ensured that Insurance is an “essential service”. 
The extension of period for payment of premium for health insurance, motor third party insurance, 
payment of instalment premium in health insurance, issuance of electronic policies, setting time limit 
of two hours to authorize cashless claims has resulted in a hassle free experience for the 
policyholders.  
This booklet brought out by the Consumer Affairs Departmen t of IRDAI has data relating to number 
of policyholder complaints, analysis of such policyholder grievances for the Financial Year 2019 -20 
and steps being undertaken to reduce complaints. 
 It is hoped that the booklet would be provide valuable information to the policyholders and all 
stakeholders. 

--- Page 4 ---
 
 
 
 
Regulatory Framework and 
Circulars issued by Consumer 
Affairs Department(CAD) during 
2019-20 
 
 
 
 
 
--- Page 5 ---
4
Regulatory Framework, Circulars issued by Consumer Affairs Department (CAD) during the past 
Financial year: 
A. Insurance Regulatory and Development Author
--- End of Consumer Affairs Booklet 2019-2020.pdf (Truncated) ---

